Name: Cameron Casey 
Evergreen Login: cascam07 
Computer Science Foundations
Programming as a Way of Life
Fall 2013
Homework 3 

For each problem that requires a written answer, write (or copy-and-paste)
your answers in this file.  When you are done, you should have replaced all
the ellipses (the three dots) with your answers.

At the end, you will turn in this file along with your modified
dna_analysis.py program.


Problem 1:

(No answers in this file.)

Problem 2:

GC-content: 0.43029262963 

Problem 3:

When these lines are commented out, attempting to run the program yields an
error. This is because the for loop starting on line 39 calls the variables
linenum and seq which have now not been previously defined. The error only
makes note of linenum being undefined because the program encounters this
undefined variable first then ceases to execute. We would get a similar error
if we commented out "gc_count = 0" because line 66 performs and increment
operation on gc_count which would now be an undefined variable.  

Problem 4:

AT-content: 0.7 

Collaboration:

 No collaborators 

Reflection:

 In this assignment I learned that you can write a python program and call it
 from outside the interpreter using a command shell. This allows you to call
 the program like a function to act on a specific file. I would have liked to
 have had some background on how executing python files from outside the
 interpreter is done before starting this assignment because I still don't fully
 understand how the command we were given operates. 

Problem 5:
G-count: 5738773
C-count: 5879128
A-count: 7701287
T-count: 7661547

Problem 6:
All of the files except for test-small.fastq differed between the sum of A, T, 
G, and C and the total count/sequence length which were the same in all cases. 
This is because interspersed between the A, T, G, C characters in the files are 
a small number of Ns. These Ns get counted as base pairs but are not recognized 
as any of the 4 expected nucleotides, so we get a discrepancy in the data. 
These Ns are likely experimental error in the DNA sequencing. A nucleotide that
was not definitively identified in the sequencing process would likely be 
represented by a place holder character like an N.

Since we don't know the value of N, we should compute our ratios using (A+T+G+C)
as the denominator. Otherwise, the AT and GC content ratios will not add up to 
1.

Problem 7:
AT/GC:  1.32234161747

Problem 8:
moderate GC content

Collaboration:
    ravzac14, schkyl10

Reflection: In this assignment, I learned that when you are writing a program
that processes data from other files, it's important to format your program so
that it works with the formatting of the files being manipulated and that your
program is as specific as possible to avoid having your data influenced by
other information like stray 'n' characters. 